Broken Cryptography flaw can be occurred because of 2 main reasons:

	• Using a weak algorithm for encryption/decryption
	• Using a strong encryption algorithm but implementing it in an insecure way

according to OWASP below are the scenarios which can occur in an application

	• Poor Key Management Processes
	• Creation and Use of Custom Encryption Protocols
  
Use of Insecure and/or Deprecated algorithms.

### Testing for Insecure and/or Deprecated Cryptographic Algorithms

#### Overview

Many cryptographic algorithms and protocols should not be used because they have been shown to have significant weaknesses or are otherwise insufficient for modern security requirements. Previously thought secure algorithms may become insecure over time. It is therefore important to periodically check current best practices and adjust configurations accordingly.

#### Static Analysis

The source code should be checked that cryptographic algorithms are up to date and in-line with industry standards. This includes, but is not limited to outdated block ciphers (e.g. DES), stream ciphers (e.g. RC4), as well as hash functions (e.g. MD5) and broken random number generators like Dual_EC_DRBG. Please note, that an algorithm that was certified, e.g., by NIST, can also become insecure over time. A certification does not replace periodic verification of an algorithm's soundness. All of these should be marked as insecure and should not be used and removed from the application code base.

Inspect the source code to identify the instances of cryptographic algorithms throughout the application, and look for known weak ones, such as:

	• DES, 3DES
	• RC2
	• RC4
	• BLOWFISH
	• MD4
	• MD5
	• SHA1 and others.

On Android (via Java Cryptography APIs), selecting an algorithm is done by requesting an instance of the Cipher (or other primitive) by passing a string containing the algorithm name. For example, Cipher cipher = Cipher.getInstance("DES");. On iOS, algorithms are typically selected using predefined constants defined in CommonCryptor.h, e.g., kCCAlgorithmDES. Thus, searching the source code for the presence of these algorithm names would indicate that they are used. Note that since the constants on iOS are numeric, an additional check needs to be performed to check whether the algorithm values sent to CCCrypt function map to one of the deprecated/insecure algorithms.

Other uses of cryptography require careful adherence to best practices:

For encryption, use a strong, modern cipher with the appropriate, secure mode and a strong key. Examples:
256-bit key AES in GCM mode (provides both encryption and integrity verification.)
4096-bit RSA with OAEP padding.
224/256-bit elliptic curve cryptography.
Do not use known weak algorithms. For example:
AES in ECB mode is not considered secure, because it leaks information about the structure of the original data.
Several other AES modes can be weak.
RSA with 768-bit and weaker keys can be broken. Older PKCS#1 padding leaks information.
Rely on secure hardware, if available, for storing encryption keys, performing cryptographic operations, etc.

<br><br>

### Poor Key Management Processes

The best encryption doesn’t matter when you do not handle keys properly. Below are some scenarios which are common in Application building:

	• Including the keys in the same attacker-readable directory as the encrypted content
	• Making the keys otherwise available to the attacker
	• Avoid the use of hardcoded keys within your binary • Testing for Hardcoded Cryptographic Keys
  

#### Overview

The security of symmetric encryption and keyed hashes (MACs) is highly dependent upon the secrecy of the used secret key. If the secret key is disclosed, the security gained by encryption/MACing is rendered naught. This mandates, that the secret key is protected and should not be stored together with the encrypted data.

#### Static Analysis
The following checks should be performed against the source code:

	• Ensure that no keys/passwords are hard coded and stored within the source code. Pay special attention to any 'administrative' or backdoor accounts enabled in the source code. Storing a fixed salt within the app or password hashes may cause problems too.
	• Ensure that no obfuscated keys or passwords are in the source code. Obfuscation is easily bypassed by dynamic instrumentation and in principle does not differ from hard coded keys.
	• If the app is using two-way SSL (i.e. there is both server and client certificate validated) check if:
		○ the password to the client certificate is not stored locally, it should be in the Keychain
		○ the client certificate is not shared among all installations (e.g. hard coded in the app)
	• If the app relies on an additional encrypted container stored in app data, ensure how the encryption key is used:
		○ if key wrapping scheme is used, ensure that the master secret is initialized for each user, or container is re-encrypted with new key;
		○ check how password change is handled and specifically, if you can use master secret or previous password to decrypt the container.

Mobile operating systems provide a specially protected storage area for secret keys, commonly named key stores or key chains. Those storage areas will not be part of normal backup routines and might even be protected by hardware means. The application should use this special storage locations/mechanisms for all secret keys.

#### Remediation
The secure and protected storage mechanisms provided by the OS should be used to store secret keys.


<br><br>

### Testing for Custom Implementations of Cryptography

#### Overview

The use of non-standard or custom built cryptographic algorithms is dangerous because a determined attacker may be able to break the algorithm and compromise data that has been protected. Implementing cryptographic functions is time consuming, difficult and very likely to fail. Instead well-known algorithms that were already proven to be secure should be used. All mature frameworks and libraries offer cryptographic functions that should also be used when implementing mobile apps.

#### Static Analysis

Carefully inspect all the cryptographic methods used within the source code, especially those which are directly applied to sensitive data. All cryptographic operations (see the list in the introduction section) should come from the standard providers (for standard APIs for Android and iOS, see cryptography chapters for the respective platforms). Any cryptographic invocations which do not invoke standard routines from known providers should be candidates for closer inspection. Pay close attention to seemingly standard but modified algorithms. Remember that encoding is not encryption! Any appearance of bit manipulation operators like XOR (exclusive OR) might be a good sign to start digging deeper.

#### Remediation

Do not develop custom cryptographic algorithms, as it is likely they are prone to attacks that are already well-understood by cryptographers. Select a well-vetted algorithm that is currently considered to be strong by experts in the field, and use well-tested implementations.


